Alright, so let's kind of combine some
of this stuff because I really wanted to
highlight elements that maybe we
know have some functionality, but
maybe we haven't thought about all
the functionality that they have.
So, I made this little button here, and
it literally this is the code here and
this is the button itself.
So, it's button unclick,
alert, hello, as is click me.
So if I click here and I tab over,
let me tab down to the button.
Button, click me and I go ahead and
I hit Enter on it, it says hello.
And if I click it, it says hello so
no surprise there.
So, sometimes, we'll do things like we'll
need or we'll want our design system
will use like a non button for some type
of button context like a div with a click
event and when you click that div,
it does something cool.
So we could do something like this like
div, unclick, alert, hello, click me.
And then we would need to do
a few other things, right?
Like we would need to go into CSS and
add a cursor pointer so we
get the little mouse clickable hand, but
for the most part, this would work fine.
It's an element, it says Click me,
you click it does something.
So, the problem here is that,
when a screen reader hits it,
a screen reader will have absolutely no
idea what its purpose is, or what it does.
Screen readers can't listen to unclick
events and know that they do something.
So, we have this really nice thing part
of ARIA, which we'll learn about next,
there's role.
So, you can give it a role equals button
and now when a screen reader hits,
it'll be like, hey, there's a div here.
But it won't read it as a div,
it'll read it as a button, so,
tell the user, hey, there's a button
here that says, click me, and
so then the user can click it and
they'll get the hell up, which is great.
An issue though, which we've seen
with like form fields and buttons is,
you can tab to them on their tablet
will their focus double, and so
if you're not using a mouse, you can
get to them and interact with them.
So, if we have this div with role
equals button that will work great for
a mouse click but it will not be able to
be focused with using the keyboard only.
So again, we have a nice thing,
we have this thing called tabindex.
So we can add tabindex 0, and I'll go over
what the value means but adding tabindex
means it's focusable with the keyboard
you can tab to it essentially.
So we've got tabindex, we've got role
= button, we've got our onclick event,
so great.
So now, we're here, we can tab to it,
we click on and it does the thing, and
the screen reader knows
that it's a button.
But if you're a keyboard only user,
you're not gonna be able to
click on the thing, right?
That's not everything a button does,
buttons also work if
you hit enter on them.
So ,we're still trying to make
this div into a button so
we can do a little bit more
here we have the tab index,
we have the roll equals button,
we should also add like an onkeyup.
And if you wanted to get precise
with it in your onkeyup function,
you would listen for the event and
see which key was hit and a space or
enter was hit, you trigger it,
and if not, you won't trigger it.
So now we're getting a little bit more
into like this is starting to behave like
an actual button.
So the last thing is that buttons that
just say click me, are not very helpful
to screenreader users because they don't
know why they're supposed to be clicked.
Often the clues for like why you
want to do something are visual.
So in this case, we would want to add
a label to it and since it's a div,
we can't use a label tag,
we'd have to use aria-label.
So aria-label alert the word hello,
Tab index zero roll button,
unclick alert onkey-up alert, click me.
And now finally,
we have everything that we just had
included by just using a button tag.
And so I kind of wanted to highlight this
because it's cool for a few reasons.
One, I think it highlights how much
some of these semantic HTML elements do.
They do a lot for us, right?
They have an onclick event and onkeyup
event that's actually complicated listens
for certain keys only, they have a role
for screen readers, they're tappable,
and they have a label to them.
The other thing, though,
that I wanted to point out is that
with ARIA we can do all this stuff,
if we're in a pinch, we can just add
the functionality if we need to, right?
So we have a big code base and we don't
wanna move all the elements around,
we have tools at our disposal to get like
this full fledged functionality out of any
element that we need to.
There's kind of a weird example where
Twitter uses this library that allows it
to compile both for web and for native
apps, which means that the markup kind of
gets all jumbled, so folks like
accessibility developers will often
see twitter.com source code that
it's just dibs thousands of dibs.
They'll be like, That's terrible,
this is totally inaccessible,
then I'll try using it,
it actually works really well.
And so the reason is that, even though it
has to generate dibs because it compiles
to react, native and web, it provides all
the ARIA functionality that you'll need.
So, it's got all the tab
indexes all the labels,
all of the unclick on the key up events,
everything that you need,
so It's kind of a weird one where
on first glance, it would be like,
this is the worst, it's like the most
div filled app I've ever seen.
Then you start really getting into it and
it's like okay, actually they do all
the things that you would need to do
to make a fully fledged accessible app.